SceneGraph compilation
======================

SceneGraph components are compiled as the application is started. All SceneGraph component files (with the extension `*.xml)`, and any related BrightScript files (with the extension `*.brs)`, in the `pkg:/components` directory, are compiled.

BrightScript files in the `pkg:/components` directory are compiled in the same way as BrightScript files in the `pkg:/source` directory. The SceneGraph component files are compiled by creating a list of component names for the application, based on the `name` attribute of the [**<component>**](component_1608292.html) element of each file. These component names are checked for validity as instances of the components are created in the application. This check is _case-sensitive_: the component name to be created must _exactly_ match a name in the component name list, _including_ case. The application begins to create instances of SceneGraph components starting with a component extended from a scene node class (either [**Scene**](Scene_1607315.html) or [**OverhangPanelSetScene**](OverhangPanelSetScene_1613108.html)). See [**Component Initialization Order**](Component-Initialization-Order_1611697.html) for a description of the process that creates component instances.

> There _must_ be only _one_ SceneGraph component extended from a scene node class in the `pkg:/components` directory. All component names in an application should be unique to avoid the possibility of creating an instance of an unwanted component definition.